# I Introduction #
Were what we have done for others the measure of what should be done for us, then the life of Leslie Stephen, if written at all, should be well written. Moreover, I think that had he been an impartial judge in his own cause, he would have admitted that an interesting book might be made about him. His insight, his honesty, his sympathy, his humour were sometimes expended with good results upon tasks that were far less promising, and, before I have done what I have to do, I shall hear him allowing that my materials were better than he thought, though he would not commend the unskilful use that will be made of them.
In two or three words I will explain why I turn my hand to work of a kind to which it is not accustomed, and then I will say no more of myself. I first met Leslie Stephen on Sunday, April 4, 1880. He was then forty-seven years old and I was nearly thirty. A friend of ours had enlisted me as one of those 'Sunday Tramps' of whom a word must be said hereafter. My acquaintance with our 'chief guide', as we called him, became friendship, and after a while a marriage, upon which he bestowed his blessing, made me in some sort a kinsman of his. Though the relationship was not of the closest, he could, as I now see, write of me as having been 'domesticated in his family', and 'yours very truly' was exchanged for 'yours affectionately'. Then when he was struck down by a great sorrow and did not think to live much longer, he told me how he was writing about himself and the wife whom he had lost, a letter to be read by her children, and how he wished me to see that letter after his death. After his death I saw it, and in it he had said that I might make use of the contents if I chose to write 'a short article or "apreciation" or a notice in a biographical dictionary'. 
